type=page
title=Apache OpenOffice Calc
notice=https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
~~~~~~
[![Screendump of Apache OpenOffice Calc](/product/pix/calc.png)](/product/pix/calc-big.png "Click for bigger version") # {.rfloatimg}

*The all-purpose spreadsheet*

**Calc** is the spreadsheet program you've always wanted. Newcomers find it
intuitive and easy to learn; professional data miners and number crunchers will
appreciate the comprehensive range of advanced functions.

Advanced *DataPilot* technology makes it easy to pull in raw data from corporate
databases; cross-tabulate, summarise, and convert it into meaningful information.

*Natural language formulas* let you create formulas using words (e.g. "sales -
costs").

The *Intelligent Sum Button* inserts a sum function or a subtotal automatically,
depending on context.

*Wizards* guides you through choosing and using a comprehensive range of
advanced spreadsheet functions, or [download templates][1] from our  Extensions
repository for ready-made spreadsheet solutions.

*Styles and Formatting* makes it easy to apply flexible cell formatting options,
including freely rotating contents, templates, backgrounds, borders, and many
more. You can be your own spreadsheet expert thanks to *templates* with built-in
functions, allowing you to concentrate on your real work.

*Scenario Manager* allows "what if ..." analysis at the touch of a button - e.g.
compare profitability for high / medium / low sales forecasts.

**Calc**'s *solver* component allows solving optimization problems where the
optimum value of a particular spreadsheet cell has to be calculated based on
constraints provided in other cells.

Encourage collaborative working on spreadsheets with **Calc**'s multiple users
support. By sharing a spreadsheet other users can easily add their data to the
spreadsheet. The spreadsheet owner can then easily integrate the new data with a
few clicks. This collaboration feature helps avoid editing conflicts.

Save your spreadsheets in OpenDocument format, the new international standard
for office documents. This XML based format means you're not tied in to
**Calc**. You can access your spreadsheets from any OpenDocument compliant
software.

Of course, you are free to use your old Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, or save
your work in Excel format for sending to people who are still locked into
Microsoft products. If all they want to see is your results, then use Portable
Document Format (.pdf) - no need to buy any extra software. Since version 3.0,
**Calc** has been able to read .xlsx files created with Microsoft Office 2007 or
Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac OS X.

[1]: http://extensions.openoffice.org/templates "Download Apache OpenOffice Templates"
