type=page
title=Apache OpenOffice Writer
notice=https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
~~~~~~
[![Screendump of Apache OpenOffice Writer](/product/pix/writer.png)](/product/pix/writer-big.png "Click for bigger version")

*For all your documents*

**Writer** has everything you would expect from a modern, fully equipped word
processor or desktop publisher.

It's simple enough for a quick memo, powerful enough to create complete books
with contents, diagrams, indexes, etc. You're free to concentrate on your
message - while **Writer** makes it look great.

The *Wizards* takes all the hassle out of producing standard documents such as
letters, faxes, agendas, minutes, or carrying out more complex tasks such as
mail merges. You are of course free to create your own templates, or
[download templates][1] from our Extensions repository.

*Styles and Formatting* puts the power of style sheets into the hands of every
user.

Trap typing mistakes on the fly with the *AutoCorrect dictionary*, which can
check your spelling as you type. If you need to use different languages in your
document - **Writer** can handle that too.

Reduce typing effort with *AutoComplete*, which suggests common words and
phrases to complete what you are typing.

*Text frames* and *linking* give you the power to tackle desktop publishing
tasks for newsletters, flyers, etc. laid out exactly the way you want them to
be.

Increase the usefulness of your long, complex documents by generating a table of
contents or indexing terms, bibliographical references, illustrations, tables,
and other objects.

**Writer** can also display multiple pages while you edit - ideal for complex
documents, or if you have a large monitor (or multiple monitors).

The advanced notes feature displays notes on the side of the document. This
makes notes a lot easier to read. In addition, notes from different users are
displayed in different colours together with the editing date and time.

Make your documents freely available with **Writer**'s HTML export to the web,
or export in MediaWiki format for publishing to wikis. Publish in Portable
Document Format (.pdf) to guarantee that what you write is what your reader
sees. The PDF export feature in Apache OpenOffice provides a huge set of formatting
and security options; so that PDF files can be customized for many different
scenarios, including ISO standard PDF/A files.

Save your documents in OpenDocument format, the new international standard for
office documents. This XML based format means you're not tied in to **Writer**.
You can access your documents from any OpenDocument compliant software.

**Writer** can of course read all your old Microsoft Word documents, or save
your work in Microsoft Word format for sending to people who are still locked
into Microsoft products. From version 3.0 **Writer** can also open .docx files
created with Microsoft Office 2007 or Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac OS X.

[1]: http://extensions.openoffice.org/templates "Download Apache OpenOffice Templates"
